Peer wishes:

"For me, the most difficult thing has been estimating if I've expressed myself
clearly enough in the text. So, I would appreciate it if you could focus your
feedback on the intelligibility of the text."

My answer:

My biggest problem was having no background information on the subject. I don't
really know what the field in question is, what thin films are, why this is
important or what the applications are. Like your TODO says, this is all
material that would be in the intro, so just fill that out and you're good to
go. Otherwise the body of the text was readable. It felt like the text moved a
bit fast in some places. What I mean by that is that it seemed to go from one
thing to another without explaining the first thing enough, but that might be
fixed by adding the intro.



Questions for peer review

1. Has the writer identified informal language and made vocabulary choices
suitable for an academic audience? Please point out some of the successful
examples; also tell the writer where he/she could still have made better
choices of words (use of synonyms).

A1. I think the whole text is very informal, so it's a bit hard to pick out
    specific examples. I didn't find any bad word choices either.

    For example the introduction stub is very well written in the informal language:
    "
    In this paper a few effective medium approximations for the complex
    refractive index are introduced. The aim of this literature review is to
    compare the findings of studies related to the usage of these models with
    thin film structures and provide an overview of the types of materials
    these models could be used with.
    "

2. Has the writer managed to link information successfully between sentences in
order to maintain a predictable flow of information, employing some linking
strategies in his/her own text? If yes, please point out a few good examples.
If not, select a section in the text where you can show exactly how the writer
could have linked the information more successfully.

A2. The flow of text is also good. Here's one example:

    "
    Effective medium approximations or EMAs are models made to predict the
    effective properties of heterogeneous materials. So, the purpose of these
    EMAs is to homogenize a physical property, e.g. dielectric constant, of a
    material composed of two or more constituent materials with different
    physical properties.
    "

    Here, the start of the next sentence links it with the previous one "So,
    the purpose of these EMAs..."

    Here's another example:

    "
    Relating to this Maxwell Garnett model, Sihvola introduced a model for
    describing the optical properties of elliptical inclusions. From this model
    for elliptical inclusions Sihvola derived a model for the case of
    cylindrical inclusions. This model is called the 2-dimensional Maxwell
    Garnett model...
    "

    In this case, the first sentence linking works well: "From this model..."
    But in the second sentence the use of "This model..." can be a bit confusing,
    and it would be easier to read if it went with "that model".

3. Has the writer written his/her paragraphs with predictable flow, e.g.
general-specific, and clear topical focus? Please show the writer where he/she
has been successful, and where he/she could have done better.

A3. On the whole the paragraphs work well. Often, one model is discussed in one
    paragraph, and another in the next one.

    This is an example of a set that works well:
    "
    Effective medium approximations or EMAs are models made to predict the
    effective properties of heterogeneous materials. So, the purpose of these
    EMAs is to homogenize a physical property, e.g. dielectric constant, of a
    material composed of two or more constituent materials with dierent
    physical properties. In this chapter some of the most commonly used EMAs
    for the permittivity of heterogeneous thin films are introduced and the
    intended use cases for these EMAs are discussed briefly.
    
    The first model introduced here is the Volume Averaging theory or VAT. VAT
    seems to be an EMA that effectively describes the optical properties of a
    few different types of heterogeneous materials [1, 2]. VAT was originally
    derived by del Rio and Whitaker for inclusions of arbitrary shape of one
    material embedded in a different background medium. The main assumption
    made in the VAT model is that the arbitrarily shaped inclusions form a
    relatively isotropic composite and that the volume fraction of the
    materials is effectively homogeneous throughout the composite.  [3, 4]
    "

    First there's a general explanation of EMAs, and in the next paragraph we
    dive into one specific model.
    

    This paragraph however drags on a bit:

    "
   In general, EMAs have some limitations as they try to approximate a
   heterogeneous medium as a homogeneous one. For example, according to
   Hutchinson et al. the scattering from the pores is assumed to be negligible
   in most EMAs. Because of this, there usually is a minimum wavelength after
   which scattering from the pores becomes too large for the model to
   accurately predict the optical properties of the medium. [1] According to
   Sihvola, as a rule of thumb, the minimum wavelength used should be 10 times
   greater than the size of the inclusion [6]. Hutchinson et al. also give a
   general rule for the minimum wavelength stating that <formula here> for the
   EMAs to work [1]. The ratio of thin film length to the size of the
   inclusions has also been shown to affect the optical properties of porous
   thin films [1, 2].  Although, according to Garahan et al., this phenomenon
   is only related to the interference between different pores and is present
   only because of the numerical modeling methods used in the study. So, this
   limitation shouldn't be present when dealing with a real thin film with
   multiple pores and not a mathematical model of a simplified system. [2] This
   analysis by Garahan et al. seems to hold at least when looking at the data
   by Hulkkonen et al. where the ratio of film thickness to pore diameter is
   almost unity but the 2D maxwell Garnett model was able to predict the
   porosities of the used samples from their optical properties [9].
   "

   It would benefit from being divided into two smaller paragraphs.

4. Does the introduction explain the significance and purpose of the text? If
yes, point out how exactly. If not, mention what it is lacking.

A4. The intro is just a stub, so there's nothing to comment on.

5. Does the abstract concisely describe the important parts of the text? If
yes, in what ways exactly? If not, what would you suggest for improving it?

A5. No abstract.

6. Does the conclusion underline the key points or findings of the text? If
yes, how exactly? If not, what would you suggest for improvement?

A6. No conclusion.

7. Has the writer designed a good table of contents? If yes, point out what is
especially good about it. If not, what is still missing?

A7. The TOC works, but is maybe a bit high level? It could be worth a try to
    add some subsections to it to divide the sections.

8. Has the writer avoided unnecessary and undefined use of jargon that makes a
text harder to understand?

A8. It's not too bad, but "thin film" for example isn't explained, but
    hopefully that'll be defined in the intro.

9. Has the writer managed to use consistent formatting and linguistic
conventions for citation; e.g. author-date or numerical citation, reporting
verbs, punctuation of citations? If yes, point out a few good examples. If not,
suggest how the writer can still improve the text.

A9. Formatting is consistent, but that's no surprise because it's done with LaTeX.
    Punctuation and linguistic conventions are followed too. 

    Here's one good example:
    "
    The first model introduced here is the Volume Averaging theory or VAT. VAT
    seems to be an EMA that effectively describes the optical properties of a
    few different types of heterogeneous materials [1, 2].
    "

    Here's another:
    "
    In general, EMAs have some limitations as they try to approximate a
    heterogeneous medium as a homogeneous one. For example, according to
    Hutchinson et al. the scattering from the pores is assumed to be negligible
    in most EMAs. Because of this, there usually is a minimum wavelength after
    which scattering from the pores becomes too large for the model to
    accurately predict the optical properties of the medium. [1]
    "


10. Has the writer managed to paraphrase and summarize source material without
plagiarizing from the original text? Please point out a few successful
examples, or else tell how the writer could improve this or that piece of
his/her text in terms of paraphrasing and summarizing.

A10. The paraphrasing and summarising also seems to be on point, although I
     didn't look a the actual sources to confirm this.

     Here's one example of good paraphrasing:
     "
     In general, EMAs have some limitations as they try to approximate a
     heterogeneous medium as a homogeneous one. For example, according to
     Hutchinson et al. the scattering from the pores is assumed to be
     negligible in most EMAs.  Because of this, there usually is a minimum
     wavelength after which scattering from the pores becomes too large for the
     model to accurately predict the optical properties of the medium. [1]
     "

    Here's an example of good summarizing:
    "
    For spherical inclusions, Hutchinson et al., found that the 3D Maxwell
    Garnett model did what it was intended to do, and accurately predicted the
    optical properties for these inclusions. However their numerical modeling
    also showed that, as with the 2D Maxwell Garnett model, the 3D Maxwell
    Garnett model wasn't the best at predicting the imaginary part of the
    refractive index. Although the imaginary part wasn't too far o from the
    values predicted by the 3D MGT, the nonsymmetric Bruggeman model described
    it more accurately. [1]
    "















