IoT Applications in Healthcare
A Literature Review

Jonas Nikula
13/04/2017

Abstract
This is a literature review of the articles [1] and [2]. The purpose of this literature review is to present
an overview of the present and potential applications of IoT (Internet of Things) in the health care field
based primarily on the aforementioned articles.

Contents
1 Introduction

1

2 The internet of things

1

3 IoT applications in health care

2

4 Conclusions

2

I

1

Introduction

In recent years the concept of IoT (internet of things) has been gaining a lot of interest, especially in the
field of electronics and software development. Simply stated, the internet of things means the increased
linking of embedded systems with each other and the internet. Embedded systems mean the electronics
within devices, buildings and vehicles, as opposed to the general computing devices like computers and
smart phones that we use every day.
The reason IoT has been gaining as much interest as it has is because it enables automation and
collection of data on a whole new level. This can mean tracking inventories accurately in real time,
or optimizing heating and air conditioning depending on how many people are at home and in which
rooms. It’s not hard to imagine that this kind of monitoring would be immensely useful in health care.
Doctors wouldn’t have to rely on a 30 minute visit to make a diagnosis, instead they could check the
data collected during the week to see if there are signs of illness.
To better understand the applications of IoT, I first aim to define IoT and explore the technologies
that enable it section 2. After that we’ll look at how IoT can be applied tackle challenges in the health
care domain in section 3. Finally I present my conclusions in section 4.

2

The internet of things

The term “internet of things” or IoT has become quite a buzzword in recent years. One consequence of
achieving buzzword status is that the term can become a bit unclear, which is somewhat true with IoT;
Although the high level concept and basics are pretty clear, a lot of researchers to have their own opinion
on how wide the term is, and what technologies are encompassed by it and which are separate from it.
In this section I’ll try to explain the concept in a way that I think most people working in electronics or
software development can agree on.
In my opinion the predecessor of the modern concept of IoT was and is the idea of “wireless sensor
networks” or WSNs. The idea of WSNs is to deploy large numbers of simple and cheap networked smart
sensors that effectively monitor an area. As the military applications of that kind of technology are
self-evident, US military research agency DARPA sponsored programs researching sensor networks for
use on the battlefield. Back then the sensors were usually stationary. Today the applications of WSNs
have thankfully broadened to civilian fields, like rescue and environmental monitoring. Modern WSN
are also increasingly mobile, the sensors being carried by robots or drones. [3]
So WSNs are one part of the internet of things. Put simply, they’re the eyes and ears of the concept,
they collect the data. But collecting the data is not enough, somebody or something also has to make
sense of it. Machine learning methods can take the massive amounts of data that WSNs generate, and
pick out patterns and trends from it. They can predict future conditions form present ones, or identify
and track people from images using computer vision. [4] To be clear though, machine learning is separate
concept from IoT, and it has a multitude of other fields where it can be applied. However, machine
learning is vital to the successful application of IoT.
The third part that makes IoT possible is the improvement of communications technologies, especially
the improvement of wireless communications. Most IoT applications would be impractical if they were
constrained by physical wires. The internet of things also benefits immensely from open standards and
protocols like IP and HTTP that have been widely adopted because of the internet. This enables products
from different manufacturers to work seamlessly together.
Modern communications technologies combined with increasing computing power in small chips has
also enabled distributed computing. Distributed computing means that instead of sending all the data to
a central server for processing, a WSN for example can have multiple (less powerful) processing nodes in
the network. This lessens the strain that data transfer has on the network, and also makes the processing
more robust because there isn’t a single point of failure. [5]
So to sum up, IoT consists of data collection, connectivity and processing. Another part that we
haven’t mentioned is actuating, or acting upon the environment instead of just monitoring it. It might
be a considered a big part of IoT in the future, but at the moment a lot of research on IoT isn’t focused
on it, and it seems that most researchers don’t consider it a part of the concept.

1

3

IoT applications in health care

Because IoT is in itself a term that encompasses many things, and because it has many applications
in health care, it’s beneficial to approach the subject by dividing its applications into a few different
categories.
IoT research and applications in the health care domain can be divided into different categories
depending on the point of view. For example the in the article [2] the authors divide the research of IoT
in health care in to three different “levels” of research:
Topology is concerned with the actual devices and their connections and tasks. Topology research
might for example try to figure out how to transfer the data from a patient’s wearable to the cloud
for processing.
Architecture research is more focused on the organization of devices and the software and protocol
they use. In architecture research an important goal might be defining what protocol the devices
use to transfer the data.
Platform research tries to create a good environment for IoT operation and development. It does this
by developing standards and reusable software libraries.
All of these research fields are concerned with IoT applications in health care, but they differ on
which part of the ecosystem they research. IoT applications can also be categorized by what kind of
service they aim to provide. For example, the challenges and requirements in treating a certain chronic
afliction can be very different than trying to look out for early symptoms in preventive care. Age and
other factors that vary between patients might also pose different needs. For example, older patients are
not as technologically inclined, and thus need extremely clear and simple to use devices. The ultimate
goal being that the device would be practically invisible to the user.

4

Conclusions

References
[1]

N. Bui and M. Zorzi, “Health care applications: a solution based on the internet of things,” International Symposium on Applied Sciences in Biomedical and Communication Technologies, pp. 0–4,
2011. doi: 10.1145/2093698.2093829. [Online]. Available: http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?
id=2093829.

[2]

S. M. R. Islam, D. Kwak, H. Kabir, M. Hossain, and K.-S. Kwak, “The Internet of Things for
Health Care : A Comprehensive Survey,” Access, IEEE, vol. 3, pp. 678–708, 2015, issn: 2169-3536.
doi: 10.1109/ACCESS.2015.2437951. [Online]. Available: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/
articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=7113786.

[3]

C. Y. Chong and S. P. Kumar, “Sensor networks: Evolution, opportunities, and challenges,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 91, no. 8, pp. 1247–1256, 2003, issn: 00189219. doi: 10.1109/JPROC.
2003.814918.

[4]

J. Gubbi, R. Buyya, S. Marusic, and M. Palaniswami, “Internet of Things (IoT): A vision, architectural elements, and future directions,” Future Generation Computer Systems, vol. 29, no. 7,
pp. 1645–1660, 2013, issn: 0167739X. doi: 10.1016/j.future.2013.01.010. arXiv: 1207.0203.
[Online]. Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2013.01.010.

[5]

B. Yu, P. Scerri, and K. Sycara, “Scalable and Reliable Data Delivery in Mobile Ad Hoc Sensor
Networks,” Event (London), pp. 1071–1078, 2006.

2

